In this video, I'm going to show you a
few of IntelliJ's configuration
settings that apply to Kotlin.
Now IntelliJ is the IDE, we'll use in this
course as you probably know by now, so if
you haven't installed it, you should
watch the installation videos before you
watch this one. There are videos
available for Windows Mac and Linux and
in those videos, Tim Buchalka
goes over settings that apply to all
languages, in this video we'll focus on
Kotlin, also if you don't have the JDK
installed, you should install it now a
Java 8 jdk is fine
Java 9 is okay too, if it's available it
wasn't available when I was recording
this but it might be available when
you're watching this video, if you've
forgotten how to install the JDK or you
just want to follow somebody else doing
it, you can watch the JDK installation
video. Now I have IntelliJ open with a
test project, just a dummy project that
has one Kotlin file in it. Now the first
and most important thing that you have
to do is double check that the Kotlin
plug-in is installed and enabled Kotlin
is a plug-in to IntelliJ, so you need to
have it and it needs to be enabled.
Now, you should have it by default and it
should be enabled by default but we'll
double check just to make sure that
you're not going to run into a problem.
Now I'm on the Windows platform so my
settings dialog is located at file
settings, if you're on another operating
system, yours might be in a different
location and if you don't know where it
is, you can either just search for it,
it might be under edit or you can go and
watch the setup video for your operating
system and you can watch them go through
the general settings there. Okay so file
settings and once you get to the
settings dialog, it should look the same
and we're going to go to I'm going to
close up this editor and so close
everything up if you have anything open
and then we want to go to plugins and
this shows a list of plugins and whether
they're installed and what you should do
at this point is enter Kotlin
in the search box here and Kotlin should
come up and when I'm recording this the
latest version is one point one point
three. Now you should see Kotlin and make
sure this is the important part make
sure this box is checked because if it
is unchecked, it means that the plug-in
is disabled and you want to make sure
it's enabled, so make sure this box is
checked and when it is just click ok and
now your Kotlin plug-in is enabled.
Okay, now that we know Kotlin is enabled let's
look at a couple of other settings now
in IntelliJ version 2017 point two which
is the one I'm running right now,
parameter hints were added for Kotlin.
Now if you've been using IntelliJ with
Java, you'll know what these are or you
might have seen them a couple of times
and then turn them off JetBrains added
this feature for java sometime in 2016
and what it does, is it adds the
parameter names as hints, when you call a
method, so I'm going to show you where
the setting is we're going to go up to
file, settings we're going to expand the
editor node, we're going to expand
general and we're going to click on
appearance and there's an item here that
says show parameter name hints, so I'm
going to check this I normally have it
off and I'm going to check this and
click ok, because I want to show you what
it does and now I'm going to write some
Kotlin code. Now don't worry about this
code, everything I do here is covered in
the course I just want to show you what
this setting does, so I'm going to say
fun area and it's going to accept a
width and a height and all it's going to
do is print line print line width equal
width and height equals height and don't
worry about anything that's going on in
here and now I'm going to make some
space here because I want to add a main
function and I'm just going to call this
function with two integers now you can
see what happened here these parameter
hints were added, these are not code
these are just hints in the IDE, the compiler doesn't
see these at all, but this is what that
setting does. Now frankly I find that
they get in the way, so I've turned them
off for Java and I had them turned off
for Kotlin as well and in fact there's
just one setting for all languages.
Now Tim might have showed you this in the
settings video, but the reason I'm
bringing it up is that Kotlin has this
functionality built into the language,
you can label your parameters and one of
the reasons I typed in this code is to
show you that you can do that and so if
you feel that there's a time in your
code where you you want parameter hints,
you can just label your parameters,
you can use Kotlin to do it but this is what
they look like, I'm now going to go into
the settings dialog and turn it off so
I'm going to turn these off and when
I do, you'll see that we no longer get the
hints. Now if you want to leave them in
that's fine, but let me quickly show you
what Kotlin can do and we'll cover this
again in the course, so here we have two
int parameters and don't worry about the
syntax, it will be covered and I'm going
to stop saying that now in the area call
somebody coming along and looking at
this code and let's pretend that they
don't have this code on the screen,
they're not going to know what ten and
twenty means they just see two numbers,
so in Kotlin you can actually label
these, you can say this is width and you
can say this is height and this is code
this isn't just a hint, the compiler
actually sees these, so labeling
parameters as part of the language so
I think that the setting for Kotlin is a
bit redundant, I'm not sure that you
actually need it because if you do have
code in your application that you feel
you have to label, you can do it using
the Kotlin language and then if you give
this file to another developer and they
use a different IDE, these labels are
still going to be there and that won't
be true for the parameter hints because
that's just an IDE feature. Now because
you can label your parameters I'll just
show you this quickly, you can actually
pass parameters out of order as long as
they're labeled. So I can move this
parameter to the end so now I'm passing
height first and width second and let's
run this so I can just show you that
this works and you'll see width equals
ten and height equals 20, so even though
I'm passing the parameters out of order
because I've labeled them, the compiler
is able to match them up correctly.
So we'll see more of this in the course,
I just wanted to show you that the
labeling parameters is actually a
language feature in Kotlin, so you don't
really need the IDE feature but if you
want to have the IDE provide those hints
everywhere for you, that's fine. You now
know how to turn that feature on and off.
I'm going to keep the setting off.
Alright so now I'm going to show you where
you can change settings related to code
style, so let's go back up to the
settings dialog and I'm going to close
up general and under editor, let's go to
code style and if I expand this, you'll
see there's an entry here for Kotlin,
so if we click on that you can see this is
where you can set things like how many
spaces do you want around equals let's
say here what do you want to do with
imports, where do you want to put braces
that sort of thing, so you can come in
here and have a look at that if you want
to change the defaults and the final
setting we're going to look at is under
smart keys, so I'm going to close this up
we're under editor still, go under
general and then smart keys and the only
reason I'm showing you this is down here
there's a section related to Kotlin,
these two settings are related to Kotlin
and IntelliJ's Java to Kotlin converter.
Now you'll learn about this converter in
the course and if you want to turn it
off or on, this is where you do it.
Okay, that's it for Kotlin settings IntelliJ
has a ton of settings as you can see
here and so you might want to spend some
time exploring the settings dialog to
see what you can do especially if you're
new to IntelliJ, there's a lot of stuff
you can do in here. Okay, I'm going to close
this up now by hitting cancel. Now one
last thing before I end this video when
I started creating this course IntelliJ
was at version 2017
point one, when I was about 90% finished
version 20 17.2 came out and I upgraded
to that version, so I'm using IntelliJ
2017 point two in this video and that's
the most current version available at
this time. Now not much has changed from
2017 point one, but some of the dialogs
have a flatter look to them and the font
is different in some of the dialogs,
so in a few of the videos in the course the
IDE will look slightly different when it
comes to dialogs and I just wanted to
let you know about that in case you
notice, you probably won't but if you do
notice that you know in one video a
dialog has a different font than
another video, that's why it's because
when I was about 90% of the way through
creating the course, I upgraded to the
latest version of IntelliJ. Okay let's
move on to the next section where
I'll introduce you to Kotlin.